Hi again,
you'll now learn about alignment.
Before end to end neural machine
translation alignments was very critical
when translating one language
to another language.
Alignment is still widely used today for
word sense disambiguation or
word sense discovery.
So with that said, let's dive in.
If your model needs to be able
to focus in the right place, so
it's can choose the right
output to predict.
Then it makes a lot of sense that you
would want the words of the inputs to
align what the words of the output.
The concept of word alignment is not
a new one, actually, it used to be
critically important to classic
methods of statistical translation.
It's still widely used today for
translating languages, and
word sense discovery, and disambiguation.
For word sense disambiguation, let's
say you have the word bank over here,
which could mean either a financial
institution or a riverbank.
What you can do with this is translate
the word into another language.
And based on the interpretation of
this word in the other language,
you'll be able to tell which definition
is meant, and that's cool, no.
For this week's assignments on neural
machine translation with attention,
you'll achieve word alignments by using
a system that retrieves information for
each piece of inputs and scores it.
Let's take a look at how
words align any sentence,
where each word is not exactly the same
when translating from English to German.
So the example given here is from
a famous speech John F Kennedy
gave in Berlin during the Cold War,
which caused some confusion.
Because the term Berliner can denote
either a citizen of Berlin or
a Jelly donut.
For all my word nerds out there, look for
an optional reading about this historic
misunderstanding In the course material.
But I digress,
notice how the English translation has
more words than the German version.
When performing word alignment,
your model needs to be able to identify
relationships among the words in
order to make accurate predictions in
case the words are out of order or
not exact translations.
In a model that has a vector for
each input,
there needs to be a way to focus
more attention in the right places.
Many languages don't translate
exactly into another language.
To be able to align the words correctly,
you need to add a layer to help
the decoder understand which inputs
are more important for each prediction.
Enter the attention layer which performs
a series of calculations that's
assigned some inputs,
more weights than others.
You can see here that the hidden state
shown in dark orange has a heavier line,
which indicates that it's been
given a higher attention score.
This means that the next word in
the decoder's output will be strongly
influenced by this encoders hidden states.
Now that you know what word alignment is,
the goal of attention and
alignment is computed by giving
each word vector a score.
Let's speak inside the attention layer
of the NMT model to see what it's doing.
There are lots of arrows,
but just bear with me,
the concept is relatively straightforward.
First, get all of the available
hidden states ready for
the encoder and do the same for
the first hidden states of the decoder.
In the simplified example,
there are two encoder hidden states and
one decoder hidden states.
Next, score each of the encoder hidden
states by getting its dot product
between each encoder state and
decoder hidden states.
If one of the scores is higher than the
others, it means that this hidden state
will have more influence than
the others on the output.
Then you will run scores through softmax,
so each score is transformed to
a number between 0 and 1, this gives
you your attention distribution.
Take each encoder hidden state, and
multiply it by its softmax score,
which is a number between 0 and 1,
this results in the alignments vector.
Almost there, now just add up everything
in the alignments vector to arrive at
what's called the context vector.
This guy is what you
feed into the decoder, so
you can see what's happening here can
be distilled down to a few mathematical
operations that are scoring
words based on their importance.
This is the magic of attention.
Next, you'll get deeper into
understanding the attention mechanism and
what's contained in the hidden states.
So you have now learned about alignments,
and
you've seen how attention
makes use of this concept.